# Orchestrating the Cloud with Kubernetes

## Objectives

- Provision a complete Kubernetes cluster using Kubernetes Engine
- Deploy and Manage Docker containers using `kubectl`.
- Break an application into microservices using Kubernetes' Deployments and Services

## Preliminary set up

1. Set up the zone
```
gcloud config set compute/zone [ZONE]
```

2. Start up a cluster
```
gcloud container clusters create [NAME] --zone [ZONE]
``` 

If Cloud Shell connection lost, run `gcloud container clusters get-credentials [NAME]`

## Get the sample code

1. Copy the source code 
```
gsutil cp -r gs://spls/gsp021/* .
```
It copies the git repo `https://github.com/googlecodelabs/orchestrate-with-kubernetes.git`

2. Access folder
```
cd orchestrate-with-kubernetes/kubernetes
```

## Start with Kubernetes: Create a nginx web server

1. Launch a single instance of the nginx container

nginx(Engine X) is an HTTP web server, reverse proxy, content cache, load balancer, TCP/UDP proxy server, and mail proxy server. For more information, please refer to [nginx.org](https://nginx.org/)

```
kubectl create deployment nginx --image=nginx:1.10.0
```

Deployement is named "nginx", using the image tagged "nginx:1.10.0".

2. View the nginx container
In Kubernetes all container run in a pod. 
```
kubectl get pods
```
Status shows `Running` if it runs.

3. Expose the container to outside
```
kubectl expose deployment nginx --port 80 --type LoadBalancer
```
The LoadBalancer will distribute the incoming traffic accross pods (containers) in "nginx" deployment.

4. List services
```
kubectl get services
```
Cluster and LoadBalance should be visible

5. Hit the container remotly
```
curl http://<External-IP>:80
```
## Creating Pods
Pods represent and hold a collection of one or more containers. It shares namespaces and has on IP per pod.

To visualize the configuration of the pod:
```
cd ~/orchestrate-with-kubernetes/kubernetes /
cat pods/monolith.yaml
```
Example of a pod configuration file:
```
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: monolith
  labels:
    app: monolith
spec:
  containers:
    - name: monolith
      image: kelseyhightower/monolith:1.0.0
      args:
        - "-http=0.0.0.0:80"
        - "-health=0.0.0.0:81"
        - "-secret=secret"
      ports:
        - name: http
          containerPort: 80
        - name: health
          containerPort: 81
      resources:
        limits:
          cpu: 0.2
          memory: "10Mi"
```

Use the following command to create the monolith pod:
```
kubectl create -f pods/monolith.yaml
```
In the created cluster (service) expose to outside, two pods containing one container each are running: nginx and monolith. In Kubernetes containers always runs in a pod, and a pod can contains one or more containers. Pods do not have an external IP, it is the service which has it. Pods have a private IP address and cannot be reached outside of the cluster.

To get more information about a pod, run the following command:
```
kubectl describe pods monolith
```

## Interacting with pods

In a second terminal, set up port-forwarding:
```
kubectl port-forward monolith 10080:80
```

In the first terminal, interact with the pod:
```
curl http://127.0.0.1:10080
```
The traffic on port 10080 has been transfer to port 80.

Login to get an auth token back, and copy it into an environment variable:
```
TOKEN=$(curl http://127.0.0.1:10080/login -u user|jq -r '.token')
```

To use the token to hit the secure endpoint, use the command:
```
curl -H "Authorization: Bearer $TOKEN" http://127.0.0.1:10080/secure
```

To see the monolith logs:
```
kubectl logs monolith
```

To get a stream of the logs happening in real-time, sue the `-f` flag in the command line in a new terminal:
```
kubectl logs -f monolith
```

To run an interactive shell inside the Monolith Pod:
```
kubectl exec monolith --stdin --tty -c monolith -- /bin/sh
```
The shell has an external connectivity that be test with the `ping` command for example. 

## Services

There are different services types which provide different access to the pods:
- ClusterIP: only available from the cluster
- NodePort: give to each node (that include pod) an externally accessible IP
- LoadBalancer: balance the traffic from the service to Nodes

Create secure-monolith pods using `secure-monolith.yaml` in `pods` folder:
```
kubectl create secret generic tls-certs --from-file tls/
kubectl create configmap nginx-proxy-conf --from-file nginx/proxy.conf
kubectl create -f pods/secure-monolith.yaml
```

Once secured pods are created, to expose them externally, create a service using `monolith.yaml` file in `services` folder.
```
kubectl create -f services/monolith.yaml
```

Allow traffic to the monolith service on the exposed nodeport using `gcloud compute firewall-rules`:
```
gcloud compute firewall-rules create allow-monolith-nodeport \
  --allow=tcp:31000
```

However it is still not possible to hit the secure-monolith service using `curl` because a label need to be add to the pods.

Get external IP of the nodes: `gcloud compute instances list`

Try to hit secure-monolith: `curl -k https://<EXTERNAL-IP>:31000>`

## Adding labels to pods

Add a label
```
kubectl label pods <POD_NAME> 'secure=enabled'
```

List the endpoints of monolith service:
```
kubectl describe services monolith | grep Endpoints
```

Retry to hit the secure-monolith service: `curl -k https://<EXTERNAL-IP>:31000`. This time it should work!

## Deploying applications with Kubernetes

Create a deployment object using `auth.yaml` file in `deployments` folder:
```
kubectl create -f deployments/auth.yaml
```

Create a service object using `auth.yaml` file in `services` folder:
```
kubectl create -f services/auth.yaml
```

Do the same with `hello.yaml` file, and create and expose the frontend Deployment:
```
kubectl create configmap nginx-frontend-conf --from-file=nginx/frontend.conf
kubectl create -f deployments/frontend.yaml
kubectl create -f services/frontend.yaml
```
The cluster can be it by the frontend service: `curl -k https://<EXTERNAL-IP>`
